# 01.01-lightning-app-builder

[README](../../../README.md) > [Introduction](../../introduction.md) > 01.01-lightning-app-builder

With Lightning we now have two definitions for _Application_ within the Salesforce Platform. Classicly, **Salesforce Applications** control the visible tabs. A **Lightning Application**, on the other hand, is a container for Lightning Components.

#### Creating our Lightning App

 1. From Setup, navigate to Lightning App Builder.
 2. Click `New`.
 3. Select `Home Page`, click `Next`
 4. Label the App, "Home Account Page"
 5. Click through the remainder of the wizard, accepting defaults.
 6. You should now see the App Builder Canvas
 7. Save your new App, ignore Activation for now.
 8. Experiment with the `Standard` Components in the left nav.
	* Drag and drop items into the App Builder canvas.
	* Some Components can be configured after being added to the Canvas.
	* Try adding a `List View` Standard Component and configuring it to the Accounts Object.
 9. After making your changes, Save and Activate your App.
	* Activating this Home Page App by default configures it as the Home Tab for all Salesforce Applications.
	* Alternatively, activate only by Profiles if you want to limit access.
	* Home Tab Applications assigned to Profiles will override the default Home Tab assignment.

Congratulations, you have created your first Lightning App! Navigate to the Home Tab on your Training Salesforce App to view it. For more reading on Lightning App Builder, see this [App Builder Trailhead](https://trailhead.salesforce.com/en/modules/lightning_app_builder).

[Previous](01.00-instructions.md) | [Next](01.02-custom-lightning-component.md)
