# 01.06-composing-components

[README](../../../README.md) > [Introduction](../../introduction.md) > 01.06-composing-components

> This module will focus on composing our view using multiple components.

> So far we've setup our first component, exposed it in app builder, and registered an AuraService to retrieve Accounts for us based on a configurable limit. This data is then displayed in the Browser Dev Tools as a console log. Let's get that wired up to our view!

---
## Binding baby steps

Let's start with some basic binding. Add a binding in `HomeAccountContainer.cmp` to display the Name of the first index in our Account array. You can use common JS syntax right inside the binding.

`{!v.accounts[0].Name}`

Refresh the Training Home Tab to confirm.

> (!) Developer Edition Sandboxes come with Account and Contact data. If you are not using a Developer Edition Sandbox, you may need to create your own data.

---
## Aura Iteration

Neat. Now let's get all the account names out there. But there is a better way than referencing array indices. And for that we'll use the [`<aura:iteration>`](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.lightning.meta/lightning/ref_tag_iteration.htm) component.

It behaves much like an `<apex:repeat>`. It loops over a collection and has a local iteration variable for the item. The attributes we'll use are `var` and `items`.

 * `var` - the Loop variable for the value at each array index.
 * `items` - the array of data to iterate over.

In `HomeAccountContainer.cmp` add our `aura:iteration`.

```html
<aura:iteration var="acc" items="{!v.accounts}" >
	<div>{!acc.Name}</div>
</aura:iteration>
```

You may read this as "for each Account in Accounts."

The Loop variable for our aura:iteration is local to the iteration. So it does not use the Value Provider `v.` to bind to the page. We do however use the Value Provider to bind our collection to the `items` attribute.

The `div` ensures that each Account Name is displayed on a new line. This isn't Lightning magic. Div is a block element in html, meaning that the default behavior of a div is to stack.

---
## Refactor

So far everything has been done in one component. In reality, your deliverable should be composed of multiple components. This example will use the [Container Component](../../../development-practices/component-types.md#markdown-header-container-components).

The `HomeAccountContainer` will continue to be our exposed component for App Builder and will be our Data Container for all of its component children.

Create a new Lightning Component Bundle for our little refactor.

* Name: `AccountGrid`
* Additional Bundle Files, None. No Controller or Helper necessary here.

 1. This new component will need an aura attribute named `accounts` of type `Account[]`.
 2. Now cut and paste your bindings and aura:iteration from the `HomeAccountContainer` into the `AccountGrid`.
 3. Update the Account Name Binding to also display Account Type inside the aura:iteration div.
 4. In place of those bindings in the `HomeAccountContainer` add a new line
	* `<c:AccountGrid accounts="{!v.accounts}" />`

Save and refresh the Training Home Tab.

You've just successfully separated your view from your data container. AccountGrid cares little how or why Accounts are retrieved, it merely takes an array of Accounts and displays them. HomeAccountContainer cares little of how or why Accounts are displayed, it merely fetches them, and passes them down.

## Lay it out

Let's begin with a basic grid. Salesforce Lightning uses its own css library comparable to Bootstrap. It's called **SLDS** or sometimes just **LDS**. We'll dive into more depth on this in the next module, for now just follow along.

Now your HomeAccountContainer should look like this
```html
<aura:component description="HomeAccountContainer"
	controller="HomeAccountAuraService"
	access="global"
	implements="flexipage:availableForAllPageTypes" >

	<aura:attribute name="accounts" type="Account[]" />
	<aura:attribute name="limitter" type="Integer" default="10"/>

	<aura:handler name="init" value="{!this}" action="{!c.init}" />

	<c:AccountGrid accounts="{!v.accounts}" />
</aura:component>
```
And your AccountGrid should look like this
```html
<aura:component description="AccountGrid" >

	<aura:attribute name="accounts" type="Account[]" />

	<aura:iteration var="acc" items="{!v.accounts}" >
		<div>{!acc.Name} - {!acc.Type}</div>
	</aura:iteration>
</aura:component>
```

 1. Add a `div` around the aura:iteration. And give it a `class` with the value of `slds-grid slds-wrap slds-grid_pull-padded`. This will put all our Accounts in a grid, and the iteration divs of Account Name and Type will float from left to right, wrapping to a new row as they fill the current one.
 2. On the iteration div, add a `class` with the value of `slds-size_1-of-3`. This will apply a manual sizing to the iteration divs. Now each row of our grid will at maximum display three Accounts.

Save and refresh the Training Home Tab to confirm.

The AccountGrid should now look like
```html
...
	<div class="slds-grid slds-wrap slds-grid_pull-padded" >
		<aura:iteration var="acc" items="{!v.accounts}" >
			<div class="slds-size_1-of-3" >
				{!acc.Name} - {!acc.Type}
			</div>
		</aura:iteration>
	</div>
...
```

## Line-Item Components

Before we can say we're done, we need a line-item component for individual Accounts. Using a line-item component will help us in two ways. For the view it allows us to consolidate our markup per Account record into a single component that we can place in the aura:iteration. In more complex scenarios, we may need to write logic against individual records.

 1. Create a new component
	* Name: AccountCard
	* Bundle Files: None, `.cmp` only
 2. Add an `aura:attribute` of type `Account` for the record to be bound in this view.
 3. In the body of this component, bind the Account.Name and Type.
 4. Replace the account bindings of the `AccountGrid` component with a reference to the new `AccountCard`.

AccountGrid

```html
<aura:component description="AccountGrid" >

	<aura:attribute name="accounts" type="Account[]" />

	<div class="slds-grid slds-wrap slds-grid_pull-padded" >
		<aura:iteration var="acc" items="{!v.accounts}" >
			<div class="slds-size_1-of-3" >
				<c:AccountCard account="{!acc}" />
			</div>
		</aura:iteration>
	</div>
</aura:component>
```

AccountCard

```html
<aura:component description="AccountCard" >

	<aura:attribute name="account" type="Account" />

	{!v.account.Name} - {!v.account.Type}
</aura:component>
```

Refresh the Training Home Tab to confirm.

[Previous](01.05-consuming-the-auraservice.md) | [Next](01.07-slds-styling.md)
