# 01.02-custom-lightning-component

[README](../../../README.md) > [Introduction](../../introduction.md) > 01.02-custom-lightning-component

> If you're feeling underwhelmed with Lightning App Builder, that's fine. We're getting into the goods now.

As we begin into Lightning Components - understand that components are developed as bundles. A Lightning Component Bundle is a folder containing individual files that make up our component.

 1. Create a new Lightning Component.
	* Name: `HomeAccountContainer`
		* If you haven't yet, pop over to [Naming Conventions](../../../development-practices/naming-conventions.md) for an explanation of this new Container suffix.
	* You will need the following in your bundle:
		* Controller
		* Helper
		* Design ...not to be confused with Style!
 2. On the `<aura:component>` tag, add two attributes with the following values.
	* `access="global"`
	* `implements="flexipage:availableForAllPageTypes"`
	* I recommend using the `description` attribute to hold the name of the current component.
	* The `access` and `implements` attributes expose this component to the Lightning App Builder. Not all custom Lightning Components that we write will be used in App Builder for "Dragging and Dropping".
 3. In the .cmp _markup_, add some sample text like "test" and save.
 4. Edit your Home Account Page App in App Builder
	* Under **Custom** components our `HomeAccountContainer` should be visible.
	* Drag the `HomeAccountContainer` component into the primary section of our canvas.
 5. Save the Home Account Page App, and reload your Training Home Tab.
	* Lightning Experience caches our page, you may need to refresh multiple times.
	* You should now see your sample text from step 3 on the Training Home Tab.

Success! You now have a custom Lightning Component displayed in a Lightning App!

You custom component should look like:
```html
<aura:component description="HomeAccountContainer" access="global" implements="flexipage:availableForAllPageTypes">
	Test
</aura:component>
```

## Aura Attribute

> Deeper now. We've setup a Lightning App and exposed our custom Component to the App.

Here we will add an _Aura Attribute_ to our Lightning Component. Aura Attributes are local variables for our component. They can be bound to our markup, referenced in our controller and helper Javascript, and passed into child components.

This Aura Attribute replaces our static text with an attribute of the same text value. Taking advantage of the `default` attribute to set the value of the Aura Attribute.

More information on Aura Attribute types here:

 * [aura:attribute Lightning Components Developer Guide](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.lightning.meta/lightning/ref_aura_attribute.htm)
 * [Aura.Component[] Type](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.lightning.meta/lightning/ref_attr_types_aura.htm) - Pass entire components from Parent to child component.
 * [Aura.Action Type](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.lightning.meta/lightning/ref_attr_types_aura_action.htm?search_text=aura.action) - Pass a Javascript function from Parent to the Aura.Action attribute of a Child.

```html
<aura:component description="HomeAccountContainer" access="global" implements="flexipage:availableForAllPageTypes">
	<aura:attribute name="sample" type="String" default="Test"/>
	{!v.sample}
</aura:component>
```

This is our first attribute binding. We're binding the sample attribute to our view. In order to reference the attribute by name, it must have the prefix `v.`. V for **Value Provider**.

Success! Save the component and refresh our Training Home Tab to confirm.

[Previous](01.01-lightning-app-builder) | [Next](01.03-configurable-attribute.md)
