# 01.05-consuming-the-auraservice

[README](../../../README.md) > [Introduction](../../introduction.md) > 01.05-consuming-the-auraservice

> Lightning Components have two primary Javascript Files, the Controller and Helper. The Controller is the middle man. It is used to bind the Helper functions to the markup in our `.cmp`. Every component will include its Controller.js as a resource when the browser loads the page. If we use the same component multiple times that Controller.js will be loaded as many times as well. However, no matter how many times a component is used in the page - the Helper.js is only included once! This is why it is important that the majority of our code is in the Helper.js

---
## Prepare the Component

In your HomeAccountContainer bundle, make sure you have:

 * `HomeAccountContainerController.js`
 * `HomeAccountContainerHelper.js`

Starting with the markup in the `HomeAccountContainer.cmp`

 1. Assign the AuraService from 01.04 to the HomeAccountContainer
	* `<aura:component controller="HomeAccountAuraService" >`
 2. Add an attribute for accounts to the component.
	* with a name of `accounts` and type of `Account[]`
		* Note the Javascript Array Literal syntax.
 3. Add an init handler to the component.
	* `<aura:handler name="init" value="{!this}" action="{!c.init}" />`
		* This handler says three things. On Initialization of `this`, Do `c.init`.
		* In other words - when this component initializes, run the `init` function in the Controller.js

> When we bind attributes to the `.cmp`, we use `v.`. When we bind Controller.js functions to the `.cmp` we use `c.`.

> `c.` stands for Controller Provider. This `c.` reference changes based on context.
> `c.` in the `.cmp` markup references a function in the Controller.js.
> `c.` in our `Controller.js` or `Helper.js` references an `@AuraEnabled` Apex Method in our `AuraService`.
> Confusing? Yes. But only for a little while.

We don't have an `init` function yet!

---
## The Controller.js

Open your `HomeAccountContainerController.js`. You should see something like

```Javascript
({

})
```

Lightning Javascript is "kindof" JSON, but not really. It gets complicated because the Javascript is compiled server side before going to the page. Ignoring the odd parenthesis wrapping our object braces, let's setup our first JS function.

```javascript
({
	init: function(cmp, event, helper) {
		// Do Stuff.
	}
})
```

Controller.js functions **must** always accept these three arguments in order, `cmp`, `event`, `helper`.

 1. `cmp` or `component` - The object reference to our component. Contains references to everything in our component such as attributes and the AuraService.
 2. `event` - A Lightning Framework Event Object, used to reference Event data in our Event handlers.
 3. `helper` - A direct reference to all functions in our Helper.js

> //Do Stuff

> What stuff? We need a function in our Helper.js to go get the Accounts from our AuraService.

---
## The Helper.js

Now head over to the `HomeAccountContainerHelper.js` and start out the next function.

Start by adding two vars.

 * One to hold the reference to our AuraService method, .getLimitedAccounts().
 * One to hold the value of our component's limitter attribute.

```javascript
({
	requestAccounts: function(cmp) {
		var action = cmp.get("c.getLimitedAccounts");
		var cmpLimitter = cmp.get("v.limitter");
	}
})
```

Notice we may define the functions arguments however we like in the Helper.js.

> (!) Be sure to use unique method names between the Controller.js, Helper.js, and the AuraService. Using the same name for your functions across files is not only a bad practice, but Lightning can also be confused by name collisions between the Helper.js and the AuraService.

Here we're seeing the Controller and Value Providers again. Remember that `c.` changes based on its context. We're in the Javascript now, meaning it references the `@AuraEnabled` method in `HomeAccountAuraService`. The Value provider still references the attribute.

---

Now that we have the method and variable, we need to set the parameter on the `@AuraEnabled` Apex method reference.

```Javascript
action.setParams({
	limitter: cmpLimitter
});
```

For clarity, the component limitter `aura:attribute` is named `cmpLimitter`. We are setting our method argument, `limitter`, with this value. When we set params, the param key on the left must be a case sensitive match to the parameter name in the Apex Method.

---

This `requestAccounts` function is an asynchronous call to the server. So our next step is to define what our Helper.js does when the response comes back from the server. We'll do this in a callback. Define the callback for our action as follows.

```Javascript
action.setCallback(this, function(response) {
	var state = response.getState();

	if(state === "SUCCESS") {
		var data = response.getReturnValue();
		console.log("accounts", data);
		cmp.set("v.accounts", data);
	} else {
		// Handle Error
	}
});
```

Finally, and perhaps most importantly,

 * do not forget to enqueue the `action`

```javascript
$A.enqueueAction(action);
```

With the Helper complete - return to our Controller.js, add the method call to the helper.

```javascript
// HomeAccountContainerHelper.js
({
	init: function(cmp, event, helper) {
		helper.requestAccounts(cmp);
	}
})
```

If you've been successful, you can now see the console.log of the response data in your Browser's Developer Console which is an Array of Accounts.

---
## Closing

This was by far the longest module so far. So let's recap briefly. You can compare your work against the sample code below.

 1. Added `controller` attribute to the `aura:component` tag for our AuraService
 2. Added the `limitter` `aura:attribute`
 3. Added the on init `aura:handler` to fire our controller function, `init()`
 4. Wrote our Controller.js's `init` function, referencing the Helper.js
 5. Wrote our Helper.js's `requestAccounts` function, referencing the `@AuraEnabled` method in our server-side `AuraService`.


```html
<!-- HomeAccountContainer.cmp -->
<aura:component description="HomeAccountContainer"
	controller="HomeAccountAuraService"
	access="global"
	implements="flexipage:availableForAllPageTypes" >

	<aura:attribute name="accounts" type="Account[]" />
	<aura:attribute name="limitter" type="Integer" default="10"/>

	<aura:handler name="init" value="{!this}" action="{!c.init}" />

	{!v.limitter}
</aura:component>
```
```javascript
// HomeAccountContainerController.js
({
	init: function(cmp, event, helper) {
		helper.requestAccounts(cmp);
	}
})
```
```javascript
// HomeAccountContainerHelper.js
({
	requestAccounts: function(cmp) {
		var action = cmp.get("c.getLimitedAccounts");
		var cmpLimitter = cmp.get("v.limitter");

		action.setParams({
			limitter: cmpLimitter
		});

		action.setCallback(this, function(response) {
			var state = response.getState();

			if(state === "SUCCESS") {
				var data = response.getReturnValue();
				console.log("accounts", data);
				cmp.set("v.accounts", data);
			} else {
				// Handle Error
			}
		});

		$A.enqueueAction(action);
	}
})
```

[Previous](01.04-auraservice.md) | [Next](01.06-composing-components.md)
