# 01.09-application-event

[README](../../../README.md) > [Introduction](../../introduction.md) > 01.09-application-event

> This module will combine the HomeAccountContainer and RelatedContactsContainer in the Training Home Tab. When clicking on an AccountCard, the RelatedContactsContainer should update to display the related Contacts on that Account. These two components are separate from one another and cannot communicate directly, so we'll need to try some new things.

---
## The Application Event

Application Events are unique to lightning in that they do not follow common Event Bubbling Behavior. An Application Event is transmitted across the entire Lightning App and can be handled by any Lightning Component within the App.

Further reading on Application Events as well as Component Events are available [Here](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.lightning.meta/lightning/events_intro.htm).

> (!) Consideration: The application event is more expensive than a component event. But this is trade-off is a necessity when our components are not in the same component hierarchy. The alternative, Component Events, cannot be used to communicate across an app to disparate component hierarchies.

Naming Events in this project we'll be using an [attributive verb](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Attributive_verb) followed by a noun to name our Events.
Events represent an action that carries a payload of data. This naming convention supports that understanding.

Create a Lightning Event

 * Name: SelectedAccount
 * Attribute: account

Here we define the event for the Lightning Framework. Events are a unique type of Lightning Component Bundle and can be accessed under /src/aura like any other bundle. In the `SelectedAccount.evt` add the following.

```html
<aura:event type="APPLICATION" description="Carries a selected Account record" >
	<aura:attribute name="account" type="Account" />
</aura:event>
```

We define the type as **APPLICATION** and define the payload of the Event as a single Account record. Anytime we fire this Event, it will send our Account. Components that listen for this Event will use this Account to perform an action of their own.

---
## Firing the Event

We will create a special component just for firing this event. This way we can reuse it throughout our application without duplicating our code.

Create a new Lightning Component

 * Name: ClickableAccount
 * Bundle Files: Controller, Helper, and Style
 * Attributes
	1. `name="account" type="Account"`
	2. `name="content" type="Aura.Component[]"`

It's a new attribute type! Aura.Component[] attribute types will accept blocks of html or whole components so we can dynamically change the view of this component. This is exactly what the [Lightning Card](01.07-slds-styling#markdown-header-the-account-card) uses for its `title`, `body`, and `footer` attributes.

Jump into the `ClickableAccountHelper.js` and we'll begin by writing the function to fire our event.

```javascript
({
	fireSelectedAccount: function(cmp) {
		var account = cmp.get("v.account");
		var event = $A.get("e.c:SelectedAccount");

		event.setParams({
			account: account,
		});

		event.fire();
	}
})
```

Taking the account from the component, initialize the event from the Aura utitlity. Set the event param [re: attribute] with our component's account. Then fire the event. Done.

Now to hook it up to the markup we'll need to expose it through the `ClickableAccountController.js`.

```javascript
({
	clickAccount: function(cmp, event, helper) {
		helper.fireSelectedAccount(cmp);
	}
})
```

With the controller complete, we can add this to our markup, `ClickableAccount.cmp`.

```html
<aura:component description="ClickableAccount" >
	<aura:attribute name="account" type="Account" />
	<aura:attribute name="content" type="Aura.Component[]" />

	<span class="click-area" onclick="{!c.clickAccount}" >
		{!v.content}
	</span>
</aura:component>
```

Now we can wrap any component we like with our ClickableAccount component.

If this is going to be clickable, we should add a hover style for the mouse pointer.

Add the following to ClickableAccount.css and apply the new class to the `span` around our content.

```css
.THIS .click-area {
	cursor: pointer;
}
```

`THIS` is a Lightning Framework keyword that is required for local component styles. It ensures that your local styles remain local to this component _and its children_.

---
## Add Clickable Account to our Account View

In the `AccountCard.cmp` we are setting the body of the Card with some `ui:outputText`. Wrap this with our new `ClickableAccount` component, using another `aura:set` to pass the `ui:` base components to the `content` attribute.

```html
...
	<aura:set attribute="title">...</aura:set>

	<c:ClickableAccount account="{!v.account}">
		<aura:set attribute="content">
			<ui:outputText value="{!v.account.Type}" />
			<ui:outputText value="{!v.account.Phone}" />
			<ui:outputText value="{!v.account.BillingAddress.street}" />
		</aura:set>
	</c:ClickableAccount>

	<aura:set attribute="footer">...</aura:set>
...
```

This will fire the event, but the RelatedContactsContainer is not yet listening for it.

> If you're into sports metaphors, Kevin Love has passed the ball up for the alley-oop. Now Lebron needs to finish it with a dunk.

---
## Handling the Event

With our Account being fired into the ether, we can listen for and handle that event anywhere in the application. Open the `RelatedContactsContainer` and replace the init handler with this one:

`<aura:handler event="c:SelectedAccount" action="{!c.handleSelectedAccount}" />`

As simple as that we have a component that will listen for any SelectedAccount Events and will call a controller function named `handleSelectedAccount()`.

We'll now need a new query server side to retrieve Contacts by Account Id. Update your ContactDAI and DA for this new query and add a new `@AuraEnabled` method in the `RelatedContactsAuraService.cls` as follows:

```java
...
@AuraEnabled
public static List<Contact> getContactsByAccount(Id accountId) {
	return contactAccessor.queryContactsByAccount(accountId);
}
...
```

Now to consume this in our `RelatedContactsContainerHelper.js`.

Write the Helper function to call this new action for our contacts. If you get stuck, refer back to the syntax in your `HomeAccountContainerHelper.js` or take a look at the completed component in this repository's /src/aura. Don't forget to add the helper function to the `RelatedContactsContainerController.js` completing our connection to the handler in our `.cmp`.

## Firing on Init

Lastly firing the event on component initialization from `HomeAccountContainer`. At Present, our ClickableAccount works great. We can click our Accounts and the Contacts will be updated in the RelatedContactsContainer. But on Page Load, our RelatedContactsContainer is empty. We'll need to fire an event from the HomeAccountContainer on page load so the RelatedContactsContainer can initialize properly.

Add the following function to the `HomeAccountContainerHelper.js`.

```javascript
fireSelectedAccount: function(cmp) {
	var accounts = cmp.get("v.accounts");
	var event = $A.get("e.c:SelectedAccount");

	event.setParams({
		account: accounts[0],
	});

	event.fire();
}
```

Then call this function in the callback of the HomeAccountContainerHelper's `.requestAccounts()` function. This way when our Container has loaded the Accounts, we'll fire off the event containing the first Account in the array so our RelatedContactsContainer can then initialize itself using that same Account.

That's it. You've completed this module and in doing so created two modular Component hierarchies that communicate with each other using Application Events. Each of these Component Hierarchies are also using a standard Container Pattern. You also took advantage of the Aura.Component[] attribute type, allowing you to set the content of a component with any markup you like.

[Previous](01.08-diy-contacts.md) | [Next](01.10-icons-and-links.md)
