# 01.04-auraservice

[README](../../../README.md) > [Introduction](../../introduction.md) > 01.04-auraservice

> Now let's start living up to our component's name sake. But if we're going to use Accounts, we'll need to retrieve them from the server. In order to do that, we'll need a Lightning Apex Controller. If you haven't yet, pop over to [Naming Conventions](../../../development-practices/naming-conventions.md) for an explanation of this new Apex Class suffix.

Create Three new Apex Classes.

 1. HomeAccountAuraService.cls
 2. [AccountDAI.cls](../../../src/classes/AccountDAI.cls)
 3. [AccountDA.cls](../../../src/classes/AccountDA.cls)

These activities follow Acumen's recommended Apex practices of Tiered Architecture Design and Dependency Injection. You can simply paste from the AccountDAI and AccountDA for now so we can focus on the AuraService.

The AuraService is an Acumen Naming Convention applied to what Salesforce calls a Lightning Apex Controller. The responsibilities of a Lightning Apex Controller are different from the Visualforce Apex Controller predecessor. In order to distinguish between these two types of Controllers we apply the new Naming Convention.

An AuraService is functionally a REST service. It only exists to expose our data layer to the client. An AuraService is stateless. All methods are `static` and it does not have a constructor.

To access our Data Layer, we'll use Property Injection. Add the following to your AuraService. We'll use the accountAccessor whose default reference is our concrete AccountDA.

```Java
	private static AccountDAI accountAccessor = new AccountDA();
	public static AccountDAI AccountDI {private get; set{
		accountAccessor = value;
	}}
```

Next add a method to your AuraService. It will be annotated `@AuraEnabled` and `public static`. Since this is functionally a service, we'll lean towards method names that reflect HTTP Methods like GET, PUT, and POST.

```Java
	@AuraEnabled
	public static List<Account> getLimitedAccounts(Integer limitter) {
		limitter = Integer.valueOf(limitter);
		return accountAccessor.queryLimitedAccounts(limitter);
	}
```

At the time of this writing, for `Integer` type, and only Integers - the Aura framework does not properly deserialize the Integer to Apex. Explaining the funky casting of our `limitter` before we use it.

Now that we're through, your AuraService should look like [HomeAccountAuraService.cls](../../../src/classes/HomeAccountAuraService.cls).

[Previous](01.03-configurable-attribute.md) | [Next](01.05-consuming-the-auraservice.md)
