# 02.03-client-side-view

[README](../../../README.md) > [Introduction](../../introduction.md) > 02.03-client-side-view

> Now to define the view for our New Contact Form. We'll be taking advantage of SLDS Grids to layout the page, and nested Grids for fieldsets in the form.

## NewContactForm

 1. Create component
	* Name: NewContactForm
	* Bundle Files: None
	* Attributes:
		* contact, type Contact
		* saveContact, type Aura.Action

## Layout Grid

Create a Grid to layout for our form. The grid layout supports 4 sections.

 1. New Contact
	* First Name
	* Last Name
	* Email
	* Phone
 2. Company Info
	* Title
	* Department
 3. Billing Address
	* Street
	* City
	* State
	* PostalCode
 4. Save Button
	* Content Centered

Sections 1-3 should use nested grids to layout the field inputs within each section. Section 4 should use a nested grid to align content center.

Wrap sections 1-3 in a `<fieldset>` tags, using `<legend>` to assign section headers. Apply `slds-border_top` or `slds-box` classes to the fieldsets to add line breaks and boxes.

All inputs should use `<ui:inputText>` except Email and Phone which may use `<ui:inputEmail>` and `<ui:inputPhone>` respectively.

> (!) There are a number of Lightning Base Components available for input. `ui` namespaced Base Components are bare-bones components. They are drawn as html inputs wrapped in a span with no styles.

> Other Base Component options are available with the `lightning:` and `force:` namespaces. At the time of this writing, the majority of `lightning` and `force` inputs are still in Beta. `lightning` and `force` Base Components are **recommended where they are not in Beta**, as they provide additional features such as styling and contextual awareness to the data bindings - similar to Visualforce's `<apex:inputField>` tag.

> Do not use Beta Lightning Base Components in production code. As a rule of thumb, use the `ui` Base Components first.

## Aura.Action

Our form is using a new Attribute type, Aura.Action. Aura.Action accepts a function passed down from a parent component that can be called within this local component.

> (!) Aura.Actions are attributes that hold functions. Usually, a reference to a function is referenced with the Controller Provider `c.functionName`. Since Aura.Actions are passed in as attributes, they are referenced with the Value Provider, `v.attributeName`.

Bind our Aura.Action to the `onclick` event of the Save Button. `<lightning:button />` is not in Beta, so use that over the `ui:button`.

[Previous](02.02-client-side-container.md) | [02.00-instructions](02.00-instructions.md)
