# 04.04-client-side-view

[README](../../../README.md) > [Introduction](../../introduction.md) > 04.04-client-side-view

> This module focuses on building the UI Components for the NYTimes Article Search Activity.

> This UI module is meant to be a challenge.

> Based on the requirements, build out the UI based on what you've learned so far. Refer back to earlier activities or the completed components in /src/aura.

---
## Requirements

 * Leverage Attribute Binding to the Form so it does not need a Controller or Helper.js
	* searchText bound to a text input
	* Aura.Action bound to a Submit Button.
 * Leverage Attribute Binding to the ArticleGrid so it does not need a Controller or Helper.js
	* Use `<aura:iteration >` to loop over `articles`
 * Create an ArticleCard component to display a single Article
	* Be creative with your card.
		* The NYTimes API sends back a ton of data for each article. Including Images.
	* Use the acumen-navigator.js to open links to your articles.
		* (You'll need a Controller and Helper for this.)

---
## View Components Outline

This Container will have three child components composing the view.

 1. NYT_ArticleSearchForm
	* Binding searchText and clickSubmit from the Container
 2. NYT_ArticleGrid
	* Binding articles and articleMeta from the Container
 3. NYT_ArticleCard
	* Each `aura:iteration` of the ArticleGrid displays a New York Times Article as a card.

---
This module should be challenging. Take your time with it, give it style, make it fully featured - adding clickable links, slds icons, and images where appropriate.

[Previous](04.03-client-side-container.md) | [04.00-instructions](04.00-instructions.md)
