# 04.02-super-component

[README](../../../README.md) > [Introduction](../../introduction.md) > 04.02-super-component

> This module focuses on building a super component for our API calls which can be re-used across any component by extension.

---
## Super Components

Lightning Super Components are similar to Abstract Classes in Apex. Aura Attributes and Helper Functions of a Super Component can be referenced directly by a component that extends it.

Multiple extensions of a single Super Component will maintain separate states for each instance. In other words, the state of the Super Component is closely tied to the state of the child that extends it.

---
## NYT_ArticleSearchAPI

 1. Create Component
	* Name: NYT_ArticleSearchAPI
	* Bundle Files: Helper **only**
	* Ltng Require: acumen-toaster.js
	* Attribute:
		* data, type Object, default {}
	* Controller:
		* NYT_ArticleSearchAuraService

---
## Helper JS
> (!) That's right, **only** a Helper.js to be created with this bundle. Our Super Component exists only to encapsulate the API Callout from the AuraService. Our Container will later call this function directly from its own `helper` object!

Now write out the helper function, `getArticles(cmp, searchText)`, using an `action` to the associated AuraService method like any other. Assign the response returnValue to the Super Component's `data` attribute. Use acumen-toaster to send error messages. Refer back to module [01.05-consuming-the-auraservice](../01-my-first-lightning-app/01.05-consuming-the-auraservice.md) for specifics.

## New Component Tag Attributes
This Super Component will use two new attributes on our `<aura:component >` tag.

 * `abstract="true"`
 * `extensible="true"`

```html
<!-- NYT_ArticleSearchAPI.cmp Complete -->
<aura:component
	description="NYT_ArticleSearchAPI"
	controller="NYT_ArticleSearchAuraService"
	abstract="true"
	extensible="true" >

	<ltng:require scripts="{!$Resource.lightningKit + '/lightning-kit/js/acumen-toaster.js'}" />

	<aura:attribute name="data" type="Object" default="{}" />

	{!v.body}
</aura:component>
```

The Super Component can also be used as a View Template, though there are other strategies in Lightning that can perform this job better. Any component that extends the super component is drawn within the `{!v.body}`. Markup can be written in the Super Component to template any other Components that extend it.

> That's it. The Super Component is primed and ready to be extended. Continue on to the Container.

[Previous](04.01-server-side.md) | [Next](04.03-client-side-container.md)
