# 04.03-client-side-container

[README](../../../README.md) > [Introduction](../../introduction.md) > 04.03-client-side-container

> This module will extend a Super Component to a Container. The Container will use the Super Component's Helper function and data attribute to perform data actions and bind data downwards to the View components.

---
## NYT_ArticleSearchContainer

1. Create Component
	* Name: NYT_ArticleSearchContainer
	* Bundle Files: Controller and Helper
	* Ltng Require: acumen-toaster.js
	* Attributes:
		* searchText, type String
		* articles, type Object[]
		* articleMeta, type Object, default {}
	* access: global
	* implements:
		* flexipage:availableForAllPageTypes
	* controller:
		* ContactSearchAuraService
	* extends
		* c:NYT_ArticleSearchAPI

We'll use a new `<aura:component >` tag attribute, `extends="c:NYT_ArticleSearchAPI"`, signifying that our container extends our Super Component.

We'll use the articles and articleMeta attributes to partition the NYT API Response into two pieces.

## New Lightning Page

Setup a new Lightning Page in App Builder

 * Name: NYTimes Articles
 * Type: App Page
 * Layout: Single Column
 * Activation:
	* All Users
	* Add Tab to Training App

Add our Container to this app.

## Helper

Create two functions in the Helper

 1. makeRequest(cmp, helper)
 2. handleResponse(cmp)

`makeRequest` simply calls our Super Component's helper function, `getArticles`.

```javascript
	makeRequest : function(cmp, helper) {
		helper.getArticles(cmp, cmp.get("v.searchText"));
	},
```

`handleResponse` takes the data from the Super Component and stores it in our articles and articleMeta attributes.

```javascript
	handleResponse : function(cmp, helper) {
		var data = cmp.get("v.data");
		if(data.status === "OK") {
			var articles = data.response.docs;
			var meta = data.response.meta;
			cmp.set("v.articles", articles);
			cmp.set("v.articleMeta", meta);
		} else {
			acumen.toaster.warning("Warning", "An unknown error occurred on the NYT Api.");
		}
	}
```

## Controller

Create two functions in the Controller.

 1. clickSubmit(cmp, event, helper)
 2. dataChange(cmp, event, helper)

`clickSubmit` will be passed as an Aura.Action to the Form view.

```javascript
	clickSubmit : function(cmp, event, helper) {
		helper.makeRequest(cmp, helper);
	},
```

`dataChange` is used to observe the Super Component's data attribute `onchange`.

```javascript
	dataChange : function(cmp, event, helper) {
		helper.handleResponse(cmp, helper);
	}
```

## Change Handler

Earlier we used an `<aura:handler />` to fire an action on `init`. Now we'll use it to fire an action when the state of some attribute changes. Specifically, when the state of our Super Component's `data` attribute changes.

Wire that up like so:
```html
<aura:handler name="change" value="{!v.data}" action="{!c.dataChange}" />
```

The `name` of our handler is not an identifier for the tag - rather it determines which event to handle. What this tag says is

> When `data` changes, call the `dataChange` function from our Controller.js.

---
Our Container is now ready for the View.

[Previous](04.02-super-component.md) | [Next](04.04-client-side-view.md)
