# 03.05-debouncing

[README](../../../README.md) > [Introduction](../../introduction.md) > 03.05-client-side-form

> Debouncing is a Javascript concept to delay an action for a period of time. Useful especially when rapid input results in multiple server calls. In the case of Contact Search, our user input is on keyup and each keystroke makes a new request to the server. This is not ideal. We only need to make one request when the user is done typing. This is why we debounce.

> In common JS, this is relatively simple to do. In Lightning we need to escape the local component scope so our debounce can maintain its own state. We'll do this with a static resource.

---
## acumen-debounce.js

### Include the acumen-debounce
Add the acumen-debounce.js static resource to our ContactSearchContainer.

```html
	<ltng:require
		scripts="{!join(',',
			$Resource.lightningKit + '/lightning-kit/js/acumen-debouncer.js',
			$Resource.lightningKit + '/lightning-kit/js/acumen-toaster.js')}"
		afterScriptsLoaded="{!c.scriptsLoaded}"/>
```

Now our Container is using two static resources. `ltng:require` allows for multiple resources to be included with the `join` function.

`afterScriptsLoaded` attribute allows us to attach an action to the after resources loaded DOM Event. We'll need to make use of this to initialize our debounced search function.

---
### Understanding Debounce

Below is the acumen-debounce.js static resource. It has one public function, `.debounce()`. We use this function to return a "debounced" copy of any javascript function we like.

During the `afterScriptsLoaded` we'll initialize our debounced copy function. It needs to be initialized because of `var inDebounce`. Our debounced copy will execute within its instance of `acumen.debouncer.debounce`. With each user keyup our debounced copy is executed, it re-assigns our `setTimeout` delay to `inDebounce`. Eventually the keyups end allowing the setTimeout to complete - resulting in a single call to our desired function.

```javascript
var acumen = (function Debouncer(acumen) {

	var debounce = function(func, delay) {
		var inDebounce = undefined;

		return function() {
			var context = this;
			var args = arguments;
			clearTimeout(inDebounce);
			inDebounce = setTimeout(function() {
				inDebounce = undefined;
				return func.apply(context, args);
			}, delay);
		};
	};

	acumen.debouncer = {
		debounce: debounce
	};

	return acumen;
})(acumen || {});
```

---
### acumen-debounce usage

Lightning Component Javascript relies on Component Attributes to maintain state. For us to escape the local component context we'll take advantage of our acumen-debounce static resource to create a new property holding the function expression for our debounced copy.

```javascript
// ConstactSearchContainerController.js
({
	onKeyUp : function(cmp, event, helper) {
			// Call the new debounced search prop (from after scripts loaded) on acumen.debouncer
			acumen.debouncer.search();
	},

	scriptsLoaded: function(cmp, event, helper) {
		// After scripts loaded, initialize a debouncer on the search function.
		// Assigned to a new prop on acumen.debouncer
		acumen.debouncer.search = acumen.debouncer.debounce(
			$A.getCallback(function() {
				var searchText = cmp.get("v.searchText");
				if(searchText.length > 2) {
					helper.requestContacts(cmp);
				} else {
					cmp.set("v.contacts", []);
				}
		}), 500);
	}
})
```

After scripts are loaded we pass in a callback function and a delay in milliseconds to `acumen.debouncer.debounce();`. `debouncer` returns our delayed copy function and we assign it to a new prop on `acumen.debouncer.<newPropName>`, in this case `.search`.

The callback function we pass wraps our call in a `$A.getCallback()`. `setTimeout` and the `window` object are not generally available in Lightning. Asynchronous actions that occur in the window will not register within the Lightning Framework unless explicitly defined. Our `helper.requestContacts()` is making an asynchronous call to the Salesforce Server, and without the $A.getCallback wrapper the Framework will not process the callback correctly.

Now that our newly debounced helper function is available on `acumen.debouncer.search()`, we can call this on each keyup. Only after half a second of the last user keyup will our helper function be executed.

[Previous](03.04-client-side-table.md) | [03.00-instructions](03.00-instructions.md)
