# 03.02-client-side-container

[README](../../../README.md) > [Introduction](../../introduction.md) > 03.02-client-side-container

> Setup our client-side Container to manage data access through the AuraService. This Container will also perform dynamic control over our results layout, dependent on an empty Contact List.

---
## ContactSearchContainer

 1. Create Component
	* Name: ContactSearchContainer
	* Bundle Files: Controller and Helper
	* Ltng Require: acumen-toaster.js
	* Attributes:
		* searchText, type String
		* contacts, type Contact[]
	* access: global
	* implements:
		* flexipage:availableForAllPageTypes
	* controller:
		* ContactSearchAuraService

Again the Container holds our component hierarchy, the data, and reference to the AuraService. All data bound downwards from our Container into the child components. This component is using `flexipage:availableForAllPageTypes` so we can surface it to Lightning Experience as a Custom Tab.

---
### Configuration

Create a new Lightning Page in App Builder.

 * Name: Contact Search
 * Type: App Page
 * Layout: Single Column
 * Activation:
	* All Users
	* Add Tab to Training App

Add our Container to this App.

---
### Component Markup

This Container will have two child components, ContactSearchForm and ContactSearchResults. The ContactSearchResults are only displayed if the contacts Array has any contacts in it.

```html
	...
	<c:ContactSearchForm searchText="{!v.searchText}" handleKeyup="{!c.onKeyUp}" />

	<aura:if isTrue="{!v.contacts.length != 0}">
		<c:ContactSearchResults contacts="{!v.contacts}" />
	</aura:if>
	...
```

`searchText` is a String attribute bound from the Container to the child Form. The Form will provide the view [re: input] to modify the searchText.

`onKeyUp` is a Controller function from the Container that is passed to the ContactSearchForm's Aura.Action attribute. The Form is responsible for associating this function to the input event. In this case, judging by the Form's `handleKeyup` attribute name, you might correctly guess how the form uses it.

`<aura:if>` allows us to conditionally render a section of our page by binding it directly to our contacts data.

---
### Controller and Helper JS

The Container need not do anything on `init`. It only needs to provide the controller and helper functions to retrieve Contacts from Salesforce when searchText changes.

Write up a helper function, `helper.requestContacts`, to retrieve contacts through the AuraService's `getContactsByName` method. Use the `acumen-toaster.js` Static Resource to report if the request was successful, but no Contacts were found. Reset the Contacts to an empty array if no Contacts are found or if an Error is encountered.

Write up a controller function, `.onKeyUp`, to call the new helper function and to be passed into the Form. Place in some minor input validation to restrict searching to require at least three characters of input before calling helper.requestContacts, else reset the contacts to an empty array.

[Previous](03.01-server-side.md) | [Next](03.03-client-side-form.md)
